In the last lecture we've seen how to use weave count static method of the model to fetch the count
of related models and we use that to fudge the count of comments for each of the blog posts on the blog
post least.
We have also modified this test to display that to see if the text.
No comments yet is displayed when we create our new blog post using our create dummy blog post method.
Probably we should rename this test to be with no comments because that's what we are actually testing.
In this case and we might also have a scenario when we actually do have comments.
So let's see what we can do that because previously we only had created a blog post so we just could
just create a private method in our test that will just create this blog post and save it to the database.
But when we would like to verify for example that one blog post has five comments and it is being displayed
but we do not really care about what's inside those comments we do not do not want to explicitly specify
them we would like them to be generated for us.
That's the good point where I should introduce you to them model factories.
So before I do let's write another test and this time will verify if we can see one blog post with comments.
So this is a brand new test.
We are adding and for now we can also use this ranch part where we create our dummy blog post.
We will also fetch the response
and now let's see how we can quickly generate some comments for this particular blog post so we'll need
terminal for that.
And I've said that we'll use model factories so model factories is a tool in LA travel that lets you
generate couple of instances of particular model using either some random data that will be output generated
by a library called faker.
So you can check out this link that is being included to this lecture and read about the possibilities
of faker because it's a great library that lets you generate fake data so you can generate names you
can generate addresses you can generate random text will use just a simple example but just so you know
possibilities of these libraries are pretty amazing so you can generate a lot of fake data for all your
needs for your tests or you can even seed your database if you want to have some more random data.
So let's go ahead and first create the model factory so we'll do that using the artisan comment called
Make factory then will specify the name of this factory which would be comment factory and additionally
we can specify for which model we want to create it and we want it for comment.
Now where can we find this factory.
So it is created inside the database folder there is inside it there's factories folder and there it
is our new comment factory.
So you can see that it out magically has imported the faker for us and by the way if you are wondering
where did we get the faker from.
By default Lara it includes it inside the composer Jason so that's why you already have it installed.
So let's see how we should define our factory.
So it is very simple.
You have the factory which is ultimately populated inside here so you do not really have to worry.
Where did you get this object instance.
And then it has defined method inside it it accepts two arguments.
So first one is the name of the class that you are defining a factory for.
And second is a closure which accepts an instance of the faker object.
Actually it's fake are generated generator but it is bank alliance here.
As faker.
And now you should return an array and this array will specify will actually match the fields of this
model.
So in case of the comment for example we have content.
Well we of course have also timestamps but we do not really have to worry about that right now and for
content you can use faker to generate let's say text.
So if you will use this property it will generate some random text for it.
And that's basically all you have to do.
You have the model factory written now comment that does not only have content but one of the required
attributes is actually the blog post idea where you have to specify to which blog post this comment
should be related to.
But this we won't have to worry about because that would be a parameter that we can specify.
So as you can see this is how comment looks like it has the creator that and updated that and we will
have to specify content and well we won't have to specify content because this would be generated for
us but we will have to specify the blog post idea so let's immediately test this so you can run Peach
Pit artisan Tinker and now to use our factory model factory you will use the magic function called Factory
to which you should specify the model you are using it for
and then it has a method called create.
And inside this method you can specify any additional parameters that you need.
So we'll specify the blog post.
Heidi and now first let's go ahead and check what I.D. do we have inside the database so let's assume
we'll add this to the blog post we've added to it might be different on your machine depending on what
blog post you have added before so specified as to
first.
I need to close that right OK.
And you can see that it generated a new comment for us and this is the random text that got generated
for us so we don't really have to worry about that.
And this is the what is.
Well the model factory is for it.
It can generate some random data for us.
We only specified what we need which was the blog post I.D..
And now if you will go to your database client and check comments you can see that this was actually
saved as a comment to a blog post.
OK.
So now we see that this works.
So now let's go back to our test
so we have our dummy blog post created here by the way we can also create a model factory for our report
post but we'll do that later.
For now let's just add a couple of comments to our blog post.
Now let's just go ahead and add some comments using the factory function.
So you have to specify the model name so you can do that two ways.
You can just specify the class name using the full namespace or Additionally you might just use that
comment class
class property which would result in the same.
So it will just give the fully qualified class name for it but for this remember that you will have
to order your statement for comment.
OK.
Now the first parameter is the model for which you would like to generate some data.
And the second parameter optional one is the amount of those models that you would like to generate.
So let's assume we would like for comments and now we can call create and it accepts an array of any
additional parameters.
So since we haven't specified that block post I.D. in our model factory which makes sense because we
would like to choose to which blog post we assign those comments will generate it for the post that
we have just created using create dummy block post.
So we just read the idea of it.
All right.
We have saved the changes.
Now we can fetch the page using post and this route because remember that we imported this refresh database
trade.
So after each single test it will reset the Eskil light database that we have.
So we do not have to worry about this blog post that we created earlier.
The database would be reset.
So we start with empty one.
So now that we fetch the response here we should fetch.
We should be able to assert that we can see the text and let's see what we should expect.
So in case of for comments we should see our text for comments.
OK.
And that's basically it.
Now let's quit thinker clear this and run peach Puneet and now you can see that we have eleven tests
and twenty nine assertions.
So this works because if you would expect free comments and run this test you can see that it fails
because we actually expect to see four comments.
So model factories are just perfect way to use it in to generate some data inside your tests when sometimes
you do not really care about specific properties of your model like we did inside this test.
We verified if we can exactly see the exact text of this post.
So in this scenario we can replace this create dummy blog post with model factory for blog posts generated
and then just verify if we can see the comments.